development:
The emulator screenshot suite could not boot past its shared “direct demo boot never reached bedroom” setup error, which also affected unrelated existing seams.

General
get characters to show their faces when talking like in those japanese games
lead pokemon should be your follower 
headbutt mechanics
berry mechanics - put berries in the trees that can be gathered once daily. items/berries consumed during trainer battles items will be restored back after the battle.
move compendium should only interact with pokemon in the party
pokedex shows tier, evolution, location with our town map
fly/area map help and build

Items
test pocket watch item
headbutt key not working on trees. if the player has a headbutt key, they should be able to headbutt trees whenever interacting with trees. if the player does not have the headbutt key, then this will not work.

trainers should use random competitive smogon sets.
trainers should not say "that was a good route battle" - we should look at text from bulbapedia/original

create an auto generated wiki with the encounter tables, trainer battles, items, key NPCs, etc on each route inspired by bulbapedia

pallet town:
the pokeball you select does not leave the table, it should
the pokedex given to you by oak does not leave the table, it should
professor elm says he's going back to his lab, but he actually ends up in goldenrod
professor birch
pallet town border in the south has the water cut off with trees, when it should fit naturally into route 21

route 101:
npc says grass is quiet, fix that
probably remove first trainer battle - give a warning that all the trainers on the routes moving forward are strong and you should catch more pokemon to help you

oldale:
the transition north is really weird.

route 103:
May's overworld sprite is really weird, it's an old guy. this probably shouldn't have any special mechanics, and should just be a regular NPC.

route 29:
there's a weird grass patch on the right side of the gate to route 46
there's invisible npc to the left of the gate
weird transition with the trees into cherrygrove
walking directly out of oldale leads to an invisible NPC
npc closest to cherrygrove talks about a hoenn route emptying into cherrygrove, but it's actually a kanto route now

route 46:



cherrygrove:
cherrygrove pokemon center is empty, add npcs
invisible npcs in the town

walking into the bottom right npc house permanently traps you inside it. there's also an invisible man sitting at the table. this house and behavior is cloned in the house closest to the water, let's put the fisherman with the good rod here.

good rod should be given by an NPC either outside by the water, or in a house near the water.

setting the time on the clock in the pokecenter resets the game. the clock shouldn't be available in the pokecenter

transitioning up to route 2 is weird visually

route 2:
the bottom route 2 encounters feel like forest encounters, address the encounter tables between route 2 top/bottom and ilex forest.

the connection between route 2 and ilex has npcs walking on the border where there's usually a guard.

ilex forest: 
walking around in the forest animation is weird
headbutt npc is walking into the wall
turn down the encounter rate
switch pokeball drop with net ball
npc towards the top has a weird cutoff sentence interaction

northern gate has weird npc interaction

route 2 north:
the rustboro city to the north could be improved, there's a sign floating into nowhere
the npc's house with the mr mime stantler trade cannot be exited.

dark cave:
remove the rock smash rock and edge blocking the route through the bottom of route 31 side.

Rustboro city:
an ev and nature setting key item should be given by an NPC in the trainer school, remove the quick claw item and have

the tiled pathway visualization is weird and it cuts off the character and npcs
the east exit to route 44 is busted?

Route 25:
Bill's grandfather should be at the cottage, first reward the player with an eevee, and then proceed with the fossil gating.

route 44:
we should be able to explore route 44, and the NPC blocking is at the entrance to mt moon
